The Falkirk wheel in Scortland is the world's first and only rotating boat lift.
船只升降转轮

Opened in 2002,it is central to the ambitious 84.5m Millennium Link Project斥资8450万英镑的千禧廊道项目 
to restore navigability across Scotland by reconnecting the historic waterways of the Forth and Clyde and Union Canals.
恢复适航性



The major challenge of the project lay in the fact that
the Forth and Clyde Canal is situated 35 meters below the level of the Union Canals.

Historically, the two canals had been joined near the town of Falkirk 
by a sequence of 11 locks--enclosed sections of canal in which the water level could be raised or lowered -
that stepped down across a distance of 1.5km.

This had been dismanteld in 1993, thereby breaking the link.

When the project was launched in 1994, the British Waterways authority were keen to create a dramatic 21st century landmark 
which could not only be a fitting commemoration of the Millennium,
but also a lasting symbol of the economic regeneration of the region.



Numerious ideas were submited for the project, including concepts ranging from rolling eggs to tilting tanks,滚轮装置到倾斜槽
from giant see-saws to overhead monorails.巨大的翘板到高架单轨

The eventual winner a plan for the huge rotating steel boat lift 巨大的旋转钢制船舶升降设备
which was to become The Falkirk wheel.

The unique shape of the structure is claimed to have been inspired by warious sources,
both manmade and natural, most notably a Celtic double-headed axe,凯尔特双斧头
but also the vast turning propeller of a ship, the ribcage of a whale or the spine of a fish. 
巨大的船只转动螺旋桨，鲸鱼的胸膛，鱼类的脊椎



The various parts of the Falkirk wheel were all constructed and assembled,
like one giant toy building set, 
at Butterley Engineering's Steelworks in Derbyshire,
some 400km from Falkirk.

A team there carefully assembled the 1200 tonnes of steel,
painstaingly fitting the pieces together to an accuracy of just 10mm to ensure a perfect final fit.
竭尽全力地以细致到10毫米的精确度

In the summer of 2001, the structure was then dismantled and transported on 35 lorries to Falkirk,
before all being bolted back together again on the ground,
and finally lifted into position in five large sections by crane.

The wheel would need to withstand immense and constantly changing stresses as it rotated,巨大且持续变化的压力
so to make the structure more robust,
the steel sections were bolted rather than welded together.钢铁部件通过螺栓连接而不是焊接

Over 45000 bolt holes were matched with their bolt,and each bolt was hand-tightened.




The wheel consists of two sets of opposing axe-shaped arms,水轮由两组相反的斧形悬臂组成
attached about 25 meters apart to fixed central apart to a fixed central spine.
连接在一条固定的中心柱上，彼此相距约25米

Two diametrically opposed water-filled 'gandoles', each with a capacity of 360,000 litres,
are fitted between the ends of the arms.
两个完全相反的充满水的“贡多拉”，每个容量为36万公升
它们连接于悬臂的末尾处

These gandoles always weight the same, whether or not they are carrying boats.

This is because, according to Archimedes' principle of displacement,
floating objects displace their own weight in water.

So when a boat enters a gondola, the amount of water leaving the gondola weighs exactly the same as the boat.

This keeps the wheel balanced and so, despite its enormous mass,
it rotates through 180 in five and a half minutes while using very little power.

It takes just 1.5 kilowatt-hours of energy to rotate the wheel-roughly 
the same as boiling eight samall  domestic kettles of water.




Boats needing to be lifted up enter the canal basin at the level of the Forth&Clyde Canal and then enter the lower gandola of the wheel.

Two hydraulic steel gates are raised, so as to seal the gondola off from the water in the canal basin.

The water between the gates in then pumped out.

A hydraulic clamp, which prevents the arms of the wheel moving while the gondola is docked, is removed, allowing the wheel to turn.

In the central machine room an array of ten hydraulic motors then begins to rotate the central axle.

The axle connects to the outer arms of the wheel, which begin to rotate at a speed of 1/8 of a revolution per minute.

As the wheel rotates, the gondolaare kept in the upright position by a simple gearing system.

Two eight-metre-wide cogs orbit a fixed inner cog of the same width,
connected by two smaller cogs travelling in the opposite direction to the outer cogs-
so ensuring that hte gondola always remain level.

When the gondola reaches the top,
the boat passes straigh onto the aqueduct situated 24 meters above the canal basin.





The ramaining 11 meters of the lift needed to reach the Union Canal is achieved by means of a pair of locks.

The wheel could not be constructed to elevate boats over the full 35-meter different between the two canals,
owing to the presence of the historically important Antonine Wall,
which was built by the Romes in the second century AD.

Boats travel under this wall via a tunnel, then through the locks, and finally on to the Union Canal.
